I can't wait to have a fight because
everyone is this opening and and
becoming more of ourselves and it
requires each person to learn how to
fall into non-defensively it's so good
when you can move from no that's not
yeah yeah you're right I see that or
you're right I see how you can see that
I see how that reality is true for you
and and mine is true for me and I'm not
saying yours is wrong or mine is
right for most of my life
anytime
that I would imagine an amazing
relationship the the first thing that
I'd think of or first image that would
come to mind is like an elderly couple
sitting in the park sweetly holding
hands seemingly on the other side of
whatever whatever challenges life
brought them and just being there with
each
other
and as I started to have relationships
of my
own they were typically anything but
that except for maybe in some of the
early early parts of the relationship
where it's just like oh wow everything's
going so perfectly because we're being
exactly who we think the other one needs
us to be for as long as that will last
right exactly with With a Little Help
from some love chemicals thrown in the
mix from the from that first three
months of euphoria Crush yeah yeah yeah
and and also you know we we start to
recognize that there's you know some of
the best sex we ever have is like after
a good fight and like what the hell is
that about yeah yeah and so yeah you
just recently recorded some YouTube
videos a series basically about
relationships and how to fight well in
relationships and I'd love to go into
that today yeah that would be fantastic
yeah that Journey with the YouTube was
quite a thing you know we decided to do
this YouTube channel and so I did it the
way that I normally do it is I I
research how do you do a YouTube channel
and I spoke to all these people and we
were lucky enough to know some YouTubers
who' you know done a tremendous
amount and they all told us how to do it
and these are the ways to make the
videos and hear your options and blah
blah blah blah and and what I normally
do is I just follow everybody's advice
until we we we kind of nailed it enough
to go oh this is what they meant we're
doing it and
and then I usually say oh now what do I
need to do to make this feel like it's
really good for me not for anybody else
not for like what what would I be really
proud
of and that's when it dawned on me uh
this summer in August actually it dawned
on me what I would like to do is really
do a teaching in a video that is not
like Alisal right usually YouTube a
teacher is like hey here are three
things that going to make you more
productive you know and and and I was
like what if we just talk about all the
things and we take our time with it and
we do like five six minutes on each of
the things and I think we did how to
fight we I know we did how to fight and
there's 20 maybe 22 teachings just about
how to fight on that YouTube channel and
then it was really cool because once
that was done we said oh we could make a
course out of this like so anybody who's
done the connection course could do this
course about how to fight for free as
long as they had this tools of the
connection course we could just give it
away and and like create exercises that
flow into it so anybody who's done the
connection course could watch these
videos and then have these exercises and
they could do it as a couple and we
thought wow that's it was such a neat
thing when you find that expression that
feels fully yours and I don't know if
YouTube is going to like it at all you
know like YouTube might hate this but I
I I was so proud of it watching it I was
like this is this is what I want to be
doing so that was was a really cool
experience
let's find out yeah Perfection let's
find out yeah exactly let's find out um
anyway so yeah so I I totally diverged
there what what was your question you
yeah so what what made this something
you wanted to talk about in the first
place what made what made this the topic
of this whole YouTube project for
example yeah um well the thing that
brought it top of mind to remember how
important it was
was
recently it was right before ground
Breakers we're doing this really intense
thing Taran and I you know it's there's
always some tension and we had this
fight in front of a couple of of the co-
facilitators and ter and I we don't hide
our fights we're just going to have a
fight we're going to have it and so we
finished it and took about five minutes
or something like that we looked at them
said hey well we're sorry that you had
to sit there through this with us or
something I'm not sure we even
apologized but we said something to like
wow that was must have been Intense or
something and they were like that that
was a
fight what what what and that brought a
top of Mind how important it is to to
learn how to fight really well how to
fight in such a way and when I yeah when
I say really well what I mean is that
you're fighting in such a way that every
fight brings you closer and you're
fighting in such a way that
that you
feel stronger better your personal
growth has
happened after your
fights that it's not something that is
just a release of tension it's not a
sports game right often times people
have tension they go to a sports game
they yell they scream they feel better
and there's some benefit to
that but the to do that in a fight can
have a lot of destructive
uh a lot of D destructive consequences
and what's far better is to know that
every time you fight you get closer
together every time you fight you get
closer to yourself every time you fight
you know how to be together in a way
that's what is is more loving more
yourself more
connected and and then the relationship
itself
becomes this growth opportunity becomes
a spiritual path it becomes a
self-development path or whatever you
want to call it yeah before we get into
more of how to fight well I'm curious
what is how do you distinguish between
fighting well where the relationships
closer afterwards yeah or during during
the fight from something like
recreational fighting or cycling in it
or fighting because we've learned that
that's what love looks like right so if
we're not fighting there must be
something wrong like yeah how how would
you how do you clarify that distinction
for us yeah there's a lot of ways if you
are fighting over the same thing over
and over again then you're fighting
isn't healing then you might fight over
the same thing three four five times as
you're working it out but every
conversation is a little different every
every fight is the fights aren't abusive
is another one you're not going to make
progress if you're
personal story about this Tara and I I
remember we went to our therapist early
on in the relationship and we were
describing our fights and she's like
yeah that's verbal abuse and we're like
that's not verbal
abuse that's just what people do we we
saw our parents do it like that that you
just yell at each other like that and
and she was like no that's verbal abuse
and we looked into Jo were like oh [__]
we're verbally abusing each other and
there's you know there's semantics with
that and everything but
what the way I would take it now is that
we were trying to control each other
with our anger so anytime that you're
trying to control somebody with the
threat of something I would call that
abusive and so we were we were abusive
to each other and so that's another way
to just know and abuse would look like
like things like taking anger out one
another without permission it would
excuse me anger would look like uh
things that would be done things that
are abusive would be things like yelling
at each other without permission getting
angry at each other without permission
threatening threatening divorce
threatening something in the future it
would look like
um any kind of physical violence
obviously uh it would look like any kind
of uh the way I would say one way to
think about it is if you've lost
yourself in the fight if you if at the
end of the fight you're like that what
happened or that's not how I want it to
be or and I don't mean right after the
fight I mean two days three days after
the fight if you can't look back on that
fight with pride then you're
cycling you're you're you're
re-traumatizing because what's happening
in the fight is typically when two
people fight in a relationship and we go
into this in other podcast I
know you're both in your trauma right so
if
a human being fought in fuah and they're
back in Ohio and and a car backfires
they think they're in fuia again if they
have PTSD if they're in their trauma we
think that we're kids again we think
that we're in old relationships again
we're not in that moment and so we are
wildly reactive to one another's
statements I was just talking to
a a person and they were talking about
how they have two marriages and I think
this a lot of people would relate to
this one marriage is between them and
one relationship is between their
parents except for their so let's say
them is John and Nancy so one
relationship is John and Nancy and one
relationship is the father of Nancy and
the mother of John and they've they're
literally seeing each other's mother
they're seeing their own mother and
their wife and seeing their
own father and the husband they're just
in their trauma they're not even in the
reality that they they live in and
they're reacting that way and so if
you've lost yourself like that if you've
lost yourself in your trauma then you're
not you're not fighting in a productive
way those are some of the easy ways to
know yeah so it sound it sounds like
some on some level it is that you're
actually here in the fight you're not
back there correct in in the trauma
correct there some there's some way that
what is happening now is actually right
registering as a new experience with
some neuroplasticity some window of
Tolerance whatever ows it to transform
and allow one another to see each other
more clearly to see themselves more
clearly yeah and and it doesn't have to
be 100% it can just be oh I'm in my
trauma right
now like I'm I I can't I can't be
trusted in this fight right now I'm in
my trauma I've said that dozens of times
to terara she said it to me oh I'm in my
trauma right now and then the other one
can say oh right this isn't you this
isn't actually how do I hold you how do
I love you how do I how do I be with you
in your trauma so it doesn't ret
traumatize and you can actually see
what's really going
on and so it doesn't have to be oh my
God I'm starting to go into my trauma I
have to run away from this fight that
can be quite avoidant often times the
way that we heal in the fights is
by actually going into our trauma with
somebody loving
us and that that's the opportunity in
almost every major fight in almost every
major fight one of the biggest
opportunities that you can have
is is somebody there loving you in your
trauma someone there giving you what you
couldn't get when you when you first
received that trauma that's the
opportunity that's why so much [__]
growth is possible yeah so you you
pointed to the possible avoidant way of
saying I'm in my trauma right now and
you know this is this can be a common
pattern of when there's a difficult
conversation to be had I'm just going to
state that I'm in my trauma and avoid it
yeah yeah and and there's different ways
we can avoid we can also avoid with when
you said X I felt blank and I made a
story that whatever in such a way that
is actually taking me away from my
emotional experience rather than like
inviting inviting the exploration of it
yeah uh there's lots of formulaic tricks
and tools for relationships that can be
helpful and can also be yeah I I cannot
tell you how many times I have seen like
what I call the New Age fight do you
know what the new age fight right it's
they they've learned some even it could
be view it could be any nonviolent
communication it could be anything and
they they're fighting using it such as
nonviolent communication where it's
really important to State your need
somebody might be saying something like
I really need you to stop right
now that's that's not nonviolent
communication so you can take any series
of a a protocol and you can turn it into
ways of fighting that are not productive
yeah yeah so how how would I I think
there seems to be kind of a journey that
people follow through in their
development where maybe they're fighting
unconsciously they're not aware of the
way that fighting can lead to growth or
they're they're they're just in the
trauma and then there's a stage where
they're like oh there's actually there
are practices there are tools there are
framew works there are there are ways
that we can relate to each other that
lead to deeper connection and yeah that
may even be a fight that leads us to
deeper connection not not the only thing
that leads us to deeper connection right
yeah and then sometimes in that process
people can get kind of stuck in
a sort of like a cycle
of forever processing yeah you know
where sometimes they feel like any
anytime they're interacting with a
partner they need to basically point out
the most uncomfortable thing they can
notice in the relationship at any time
and then that ends up leading to
focusing on little tiny things yeah yeah
that make the relationship feel like
Discord all the
time somehow it feels processing because
we're talking about it all the time
we're stating our feelings yeah yeah
you're it's like you're looking at my
photo album I don't
know that's like you're describing the
history of of the way we fought so how
how did how did you and Tera move
through that how did how did that if I
were just if I were just describing the
first part of an arc what is the rest of
the Arc of a relationship that learns to
fight well and transforms through it
yeah so they can start a little
differently some people start the arc
with we don't fight at all and and we're
happy look we're happy and it's very um
Stepford Wives is that what that you
know that very Fake Plastic watering
plant kind of world
and so there's and then some can start
with like violent mean abusive
fights so if we start with the mean
abusive fights it's usually it starts
that way and then there's some tools
that they learn and they kind of start
working a little bit but they really
want to get that fight out and and the
reason that that's happening is because
they're not really addressing the
underlying trauma they haven't really
seen what it's like to heal might have
felt a resolution once or twice but they
haven't really felt what it means to
feel so they're using the tools but
they're starting to co-op the tools and
then there's this constant processing as
you talked about and that one usually
involves trying to be each other's
therapist and you're still trying to fix
one another and one of the main things
that you learn in fighting well is that
you can only fix yourself you can put
zero attention on fixing the other
person
you can put zero attention on their
health their well-being their how do
they how do they get better unless they
ask
you you focus fully on yourself and
that's a really important part of of
fighting is that full focusing on
yourself and
then and then you start to have these
moments where you can see through the
fight and show up in a loving way which
is the best way to be the therapist is
being a non- therapist is just being
loving and to be there loving with them
and that's when you start to realize
that the that you're dealing with trauma
that you're dealing with old patterns
and conditionings and that your
relationship is this opportunity to see
through them and to heal those and then
it's game on I can't [__] wait to
fight I can't wait to have a fight
because everyone is this way of of of
opening and and becoming more of
ourselves and it
requires each person to learn how to
fall into non-defensively
how do I go from defensive to
non-defensive really
quickly and when you've done it two
three four five times it's really easy
because it's so [__] cool it's so
good when you can move
from no that's not yeah yeah you're
right I see that I see or you're right I
see how you can see that I see how that
reality is true for you and and mine is
true for me and I'm not saying yours is
wrong or mine is right so hu that's
that's the trend yeah that's the trend
line yeah how how about the people who
don't fight yeah well unfortunately the
most common trend line there is don't
fight don't fight don't fight don't
fight
divorce don't fight don't fight I don't
know what happened I thought we were
told happy and she just walked out is a
lot you you hear that story a lot um but
if it's if it's going into healing it
just has the first step of we don't
fight and then then the fights are we're
having the fights but we're not fighting
about the real thing we're fighting
about the the dishes or the coffee
machine and we're not saying our full
truth and so this is a really critical
part is
you have to say your full truth in a
relationship you do it with an open
heart you do it with kindness this isn't
I got to tell you my truth so I could
get to right to be a complete [__] to
you it's not that it's undefended Open
Heart full truth even if it brings a
fight because those are the fights that
heal the one the the part of yourself
that you're holding back from the
relationship is a part of yourself that
needs to be healed in the
relationship and so
so that's the next step so they do these
small fights their skirmishes and
they're they're but they aren't about
the real thing and then they start to
learn how to speak their truth they
speak their truth some of those fights
might get a little while but it usually
doesn't last long for folks like that
and then they go into the oh I can heal
it maybe they'll learn some skills maybe
they'll do the same thing where the
skills are
weaponized as the other group and then
eventually they'll see that the trauma
is healable and then once you feel that
once you see that three or four times
you're addicted it's just it's the best
thing ever yeah we talked a little bit
about how a lot of relational skills can
be
weaponized uh I'm also curious how like
how how could being a loving presence
itself be weaponized or be a defense and
I I asked this because in I've had
experiences in in in fights where I'm
like okay I'm going to be a loving
presence and my my partner will be like
angry or Express something and I'll just
be like yeah I'm here with you in it but
there's some way that I'm actually not
there's some way that I'm actually like
in in that place I'm sort of a
vacuous amorphous non entity not meeting
the person with my uh with my feelings
with my truth and I'm just I'm here to
hold space and it can be like the most
frustrating thing it can be maddening to
be in a relationship with somebody and
really be showing up vulnerably which is
what anger really can be
and feel unmet in it when someone says
yeah I'm just here and I'm loving you
and there's a difference between when
that actually is real it seems like
there's like a difference between when
someone's like I'm I'm going to practice
being a loving presence and my muscles
are all tense and I'm holding them
really tightly and I'm not feeling what
I'm feeling right now and I'm
smiling versus like fully allowing the
Heartbreak that's beautiful beautifully
said I think you answered the question
the the the Nuance is it can get a
little confusing because there is a
natural response to loving presences to
bite it to get like to test it to are
you really going to [__] love me [__]
you you're not going to [__] love me
[__] you like they say something
different but that's really what's
happening they're they're poking and
testing to see if that Love's real if
they're really going to be loved and so
sometimes that you're just going to be
just like just like the others just like
exactly Mom and Dad yeah exactly so
there's sometimes where you show up in
that loving presence and exactly it does
exactly what it's supposed to do it
brings all that [__] to the surface to
be loved which is the trauma because
they're in their trauma and they're like
oh there's love I can I I'm safe enough
to go into my trauma and be loved here
and I I and I'm testing it and both of
those things can be true and so if
you're a person who disassociates
normally you can be pretty convinced
wait I'm not loving them right so the
first thing I would say is if you're in
loving presence it's you to decide if
you're in loving presence or if it's
it's not them to decide it it's you do
do you feel like you're in your body or
not and that's the difference are you in
your body or have you left your body are
you fully in your head saying I'm loving
presence are you transed out and then
you're being present in a way but not
embodied and so it's a very love to love
somebody is a very embodied thing it's
literally to feel we've all had that
moment with
our maybe not all of us but many of us
have had that moment with our wife or
husband or boyfriend girlfriend where
you look across the table and you're
just like oh whoa just [__] love
you that's how it feels that's how it
feels when they're raging that's how
it's like it is an embodied feeling it
is it is a pleasurable feeling that's
happening and you can't force yourself
into it what you can do is
go into your trauma respect each other
learn how to fight and then some trust
builds something happens where you
realize oh this is trauma this isn't
us this isn't
personal this is just weeding a garden
and I can enjoy weeding a garden or I
can [__] hate it it's my
choice and then then some once it it's
it's a blessing it's blessing is a weird
word because it has a a connotation of
of religion but it's a GI it's a
gift when that happens it's not
something you can particularly control
you can just set the conditions for it
you can just tend your soil yeah and
speaking to that
gift you were talking about how when
when you are deeply loving the other
person it is natural that more of their
trauma will come up to test to test it
to to see if that love is real
and and so there's there's a way that
this can happen where you get deeper
into a relationship and you find more
and more love for one another and it
seems like things are getting worse on
some level you're like like you used to
see me as like I couldn't do anything
wrong and you loved all of my quirks and
now you see me as this like as your
avoidant dad or you see me
as something to fix like some problem
like I'm just a project or all
like and so there's a way that that can
be registered intellectually or even
emotionally as the relationship is
getting worse something's falling apart
when in reality something that can be
happening is you're going from talking
about the dishes from fighting about the
dishes to fighting about what's actually
real in your relationship to actually
surfacing the fight that never got to be
had in your early life and finally like
finding a a place a relationship where
that can be seen and actually loved in
the way that it needs to be loved not in
a prescribed way but in in an emergent
way that shows up in the relationship
exactly I can't tell you how many times
the following has happened I'm working
with a couple or I I and I'm working
with one person in a couple and they
tell me something that happened in the
relationship and they're so distraught
and I'm like oh
good I cannot tell you because I see the
progress that they're making even though
it feels like [__] in that moment it's
it's very much as if somebody is running
a long marathon race and they're saying
I am tired it's like yeah that's what
happens when you're running a marathon
Race that's a good that's good that
means you're on Mile 24 you know that it
means you're you're making progress
you're there um and so it's very it's a
very similar thing that there's a
there are certain things that are
challenging in the fighting that are
progress and you can't see it until
afterwards I was just saying this to
Tara the other day we
had I I can't remember seven eight years
ago now we had a really bad moment in
our relationship
and we had had these really amazingly
healing fights for years we years like I
thought it was all Beyond it I had
hardly had a memory of our like vicious
fights and all of a sudden they came
back like
with with like Vengeance for the
six-month period And I was like what the
and we both for
years oh I wish that hadn't happened not
quite that it's not I wish that hadn't
happened but it was that that thing that
incident happened we could have handled
it differently blah blah blah blah blah
and and I was saying to her just I think
it was just last night I was like it was
just last night and I
said you know I think that that series
of fights is
what
destroyed my
narcissism and it wasn't I mean there's
no narcissism and isn't all completely
destroyed ever but the there was a way
in which I was subtly holding myself
above
Tera and it was that set of fights that
destroyed
that my brain can't conceive compare
myself to terara
anymore and and and like as I'm talking
about it I literally just you can see
I'm I like I well up that was like such
a [__] huge gift for me to
feel to have that [__] thing gone
that was so painful to hold myself
slightly above in in even a [__]
subtle way and it was a horrendous set
of fights and I would not give it up for
any the the amount of peace and love
that it brings to my heart on a daily
basis
today and I thought at the time I was
like [__] maybe our marriage is over
maybe I I [__] don't know [__] about
what I'm talking about maybe like I I
questioned everything during that
and but we just kept doing what we do as
far as being there for each other and it
was in that moment I remember in those
fights there came a place
where I I learned to just or we learned
how to just sit there and loving
attention with each
other just in the face of absolute
[__] from one
another yeah I got I got you I'm right
here I gotta yeah when when you said
made me question everything yeah I
memory comes to mind of in in my
relationship with Alexa which we've been
together now around five or so years and
a half or something not nearly as long
as you and Tara but a couple years ago
we had a kind of a
similar similar thing where we were just
having this this series of really big
fights and you know I had been trying to
do basically what I talked about earlier
as I'm in loving awareness I'm here for
your anger but I wasn't really showing
up until eventually something switched
and I got like right back in her face
with my anger and it was like it was
measured it wasn't at her it was
actually just like being in my anger and
she felt met in it and it whole lot
changed in the relationship but what
required me to get what was required for
me to get to that point was that I was
forced into actually questioning
everything questioning all the
assumptions which it's like a gift for
something to bring you into a place
where you actually question in all of
the assumptions just the way that you
know in extreme sports we've considered
being close to death a gift because it
makes you close to your mortality and
that helps you refine your values and
what's important to you there's
something about the being near the death
of a
relationship that really crystallizes
and clarifies and in that moment I also
you know I I got it wrong I was I like
went off the handle and I screamed at
her and not to manipulate her or change
anything but just as an expression of
like I think I said something like I am
actually here I am here and it wasn't
until I actually let myself Express that
instead of being like I'm here I'm here
for you that she actually felt
it and it's kind of tricky to talk about
because I don't want people to hear that
and be like oh yeah let me just go yell
at my partner now and that'll be healing
CU there was so much more more context
to it and even in the moment I it wasn't
exactly how I want it to be right yeah
it's an interesting thing the we talk
about in view we talk about
how we talk about open-ended questions
and things that help you get to view but
view is something that can happen in
even when you're yelling and it sounds
like that's kind of what happened you
were you were so frustrated there
there's your whole body but the
unconditional love that is view showed
up with the anger and it's it's not I
I've seen that it's rare but I've seen
it I've seen that moment
of so clear it's so boundaried it's
so yeah and she had the capacity for it
in that had the capacity for it in that
moment because it it could have gone
very differently had she not which
brings me to another question
potentially potentially but her capacity
to be there for it was greatly enhanced
by the actual State you were in which
was like I [__] love you you know
like you said I am here but you were
saying I [__] love you I can I can
feel I can say the way you talk about it
I can feel that yeah yeah and so so I am
curious to talk about kind of the window
of Tolerance like when when you're
having a
fight how how would you how do you talk
about how people can track or pay
attention to
the capacity that they're available for
the capacity the partner might be
available for recognizing when when
we've gotten out of that tolerance with
seeing it in a partner in a subtle
trauma that we're not noticing or in
ourselves you spoke earlier to you and
terara saying oh I'm in my trauma right
now and that sounds like kind of a later
stages of a long-term practice probably
went through a lot of different that's
an Advan yeah exactly yeah you're
putting me in my trauma right now was
probably the first stage of that yeah
yeah uh yeah it's a great question the
the main thing is you're responsible for
your own window of Tolerance you can't
be responsible for the other person's
you just can't and the other thing to
really know is that it's
projection if you're thinking to
yourself they're not in their window of
Tolerance then best thing to do is say
I'm not in my window of Tolerance
because most likely you're projecting it
um and if you're holding somebody
responsible you didn't see that I had my
window I was outside of my window of int
T you know then sorry if you can't you
didn't see that I was outside of my
window of that's absolute [__] it's
not not your job and at the same time it
doesn't really matter if it's yours or
theirs if you feel like they're outside
of their window of of Tolerance then
just say it just say I don't want to
fight like this and that was a big one
for for us it's I just don't want to
fight like this the other thing to
really know and and I want I think I
want to Define what we mean by window of
Tolerance here window of tolerance means
that the nervous system they're in their
trauma so bad that they can't see
outside of it is one way to say it the
other way to say it is their nervous
system is so amped up that they've lost
themselves is another way to say it and
so or yourself so the other thing is
it's all about their window of Toler
like you always respect their window of
Tolerance whatever they claim it to be
even if it's avoidant it doesn't [__]
matter you you you you do it
so I remember early early early on in
our
relationship I felt the same thing that
Alexa felt which was I'm angry why don't
you meet me in my anger this is this is
my form of
vulnerability why are you running from
me when I'm like
this
and and the more that she the more I
felt abandoned the angrier I got and so
there was this whole thing that was
happening it was very very common
dynamic in relationships
and
so and she would say okay if you treat
me like this I'm going to go or I can't
handle this I'm leaving and I thought
that it was about
me and what it was really about was she
needed to know she could
leave she needed to know that she didn't
have to put up with it
and as she stopped putting up with it as
she saw that she could leave it wasn't
about me telling her what was right or
wrong for her then she could more and
more show up for my
anger and show up as
herself so if they have it you just give
them the time that the the most
important thing however is that if you
are leaving because your window of
telence isn't good then it's really
important to say when you're going to be
back how to
re-engage because if you don't give that
to the person then it's abandon and
there you're just going to push them
deeper into their trauma typically so
it's really important to just be able to
say I I I am going to go now to take
care of myself and I will be back and
this is how I will be back or this is
when I'll be
back or these are the conditions under
which I will be back but some way that
they know I'm not leaving you
permanently because when you're in your
trauma when someone says I'm out it's
forever it's just how it works so those
are the important pieces
yeah and and and again as you just said
being able to know you can
leave yeah like being able to question
the
assumption that you're stuck that oh we
have kids together we have house
together we
have we'll never find another love that
is like this
ever these these these beliefs can
really constrain the space and make us
feel trapped and then we fight fight
like caged animals rather than fight
like that's right yeah that's a that's a
really great point is I say this a lot
it's really hard to love something that
you think is oppressing you so the other
way I say this the same thing slightly
differently is there is no unconditional
love without empowerment there is no
real empowerment without unconditional
love there you have to know that you are
empowered to leave to be able to love
you have to know that you're not trapped
or you beautifully said fight like a
caged animal and that that that that is
not [__] pretty in a
marriage okay so a little earlier you
you said that nobody's right and
nobody's wrong yeah
and I can just hear the collective hair
bristling in maybe two-thirds of the
audience right
now yeah uh so what you have to say the
easy version of that which is a little I
think maybe more of how I was saying it
and then I'll go into the hard version
of it which is what you just said is
that you see that their perspective is
there's truth to that perspective so you
and I both look at the Bay Bridge and
you're in um the Salesforce Tower
looking down on it and I'm underneath it
looking up and I take a picture and you
take a picture and then we argue over is
this the Bay Bridge or is this the Bay
Bridge know this is the Bay Bridge but
they're just different perspectives and
they're both
true and
so the the main piece there is to see
that there that's a perspective and
there's truth to the perspective and so
there's no right or wrong there's
there's no this isn't the baybridge this
is the baybridge there's really learning
and and and that's really important
because what we really want is to be
seen in a fight what we're really
looking for is to be seen but Joe they
really hurt
me right yeah I'm traumatized now
exactly and so it's very much about that
it's very much about feeling that
deep feeling seen and the way to do that
is to realize that there's truth in
every perspective it doesn't mean that
you have to act a certain way because of
their perspective and that's where I
think people get confused they you
really need a perspective to be wrong if
you think that you have to act a certain
way because of it oh if this is the Bay
Bridge then I'm going to have to swim
because there's nowhere for me to drive
a car but if this is a bay bridge then
I'm going to have
to fly to get to it so that's a critical
piece but the the harder version is
literally there's
no right and wrong and so this is about
a contextual awareness as well as
something else so the contextual
awareness part of it goes something to
this effect water boils at whatever 100°
C whatever I think it's 100° C yeah
depends on the altitude so it doesn't
actually boil okay but at sea
level water boils at 100° CSUS on what
planet at at sea level 10,000 years ago
at sea level
today because they're different sea
levels so there always context to
whatever truth there's no truth without
that context as as far as a human's
perspective goes and
so there's definitely things that are
going to create more pain for us ideas
that will create more pain for us or
less pain for us and there's more
valuable ideas and and in math there's
clearly this is an answer that's going
to build a stable bridge and this is
going to be an answer that right but the
as far as the Human Condition goes as
far as psychologically there right and
wrong is something that we do to create
separation and create
judgment and
so and and thinking that you're right
thinking that somebody else is wrong
thinking Better or Worse all of those
things are incredibly painful not just
for you but for the other person and so
often times was something that I see in
a relationship which I I was caught in
and fascinated often times there's an
emotional person in the relationship and
there's a logical person person in the
relationship this is a really common
Dynamic and it's a really common dynamic
in like every single kind of couple that
I know you know lesbian couples gay
couples queer couples straight couples
like I just see this it's not all
relationships but it's many
relationships this this very common
thing and typically they have this
agreement especially when they are early
in their
fighting where the logical is right and
smarter and they know somehow they know
more and the emotional one is more
likely to be
wrong and what's actually happening
there is that there's an empathetic
response going on so the the one who's
more emotional is more empathetic and so
they're feeling oh they're right they
feel right you know and it it's not
really ever about the logic at all and
and there's usually a a better and a
worse feeling the conviction and then
like there's conviction here we must
this must be the truth exactly and and
the person who's logical isn't feeling
their emotions so they're repressing
their emotions through Judgment of
you're wrong or I'm better so there's
all like it just feeds in perfectly to
one another and this is a a something in
a relationship that really seen through
totally will change the dynamic and you
can't make the other person see through
it you can only see through it yourself
you can only say oh wait no I'm I'm not
going to buy the story that I'm wrong
I'm not going to buy the story that I'm
right or I'm better
than I'm not going to spy the story that
I'm somehow more advanced or something
like that I guarantee you I can say this
with absolute certainty if you have been
with a person for more than a year you
are equally
Advanced you are on wonderfully equal
ground your trauma is so [__] well
matched it's unbelievable your lessons
to be learned are so
equivalent you are an algebraic equation
that has an equal sign between the two
two parts of it that's it's just it's
always that case and and it's funny even
today Tara and I will be talking about a
couple that we're working with or we'll
see like couples that are friends and we
really want to side with one of them we
really want to say that that that
person's more calm so they clearly
understand and it's always the case that
if you look long enough you're like nope
perfectly [__] matched it's a perfect
match and going going back to you know
the fight that you described with Tera
where afterwards you were like oh that
actually like destroyed a whole bunch of
yeah the ways that I thought I was
better similar in in my case I like
after the after that one fight with
Alexa I I realized that oh I actually
had been thinking that I was more calm
and therefore better better regulated
better something and it was such a
relief for that to fall away for both of
us and and when so I want to go back to
the to the truth truth piece because
it's an interesting interesting way how
in English we have the same word that
can mean a lot of different things so
when you say a story is true that's like
that's a philosophical statement and
when you say there's truth to any
perspective it's more of like a
contextual statement like you said it
matter the context is what matters so
because we're still using the word true
in each of those phrases it might seem
like both are actually about what is
true when seeing the truth in a
perspective is actually really about
being curious about the context it's
less about finding that the story is
true and more about where is my partner
coming from what is their context how
how is it that they see it the way that
they see it and what can that illuminate
from my own perspective to broaden it
expand it and also what emotions would I
have to feel to
consider that perspective what what
emotions am I avoiding by collapsing
that perspective into right or wrong
yeah I think that's that's the most
important thing we could argue over the
semantics of truth but what you just
said is absolutely the most important
thing which is what do I have to feel if
I can't collapse my partner into
wrong yeah or right yeah yeah that's a
that's that's the that's that's the
profound bit as far
as the truth part of it I I like
thinking about it is in there is truth
to every perspective like there is a
truth in the picture of the Bay Bridge
from the bottom or the picture of the
Bay Bridge from the top both are
true they're just true from a point of
view yeah so their truth speaks to the
perspective it's taken from and both of
them are incomplete I think it's just as
important of a realization but to
realize your perspective is absolutely
incomplete or I would say
wrong if you like need to put a fine
point on it there's something that I
absolutely am not seeing there's
something I am
missing and that's that's really
important to see as well because that
makes a fight really really simple oh
yeah there's something I'm not missing
there's some way I'm wrong guarant
[__] teed I guarantee that like I can
only look at this thing from this angle
and therefore there's an angle I'm
missing there's something I am missing
there there's some way in which I don't
get it yeah not and that one's a little
fine too because it's not wrong like I'm
bad wrong it's just like yeah I'm not
right so one more thing I want to cover
before before we go yeah you know it's
it's been said that the the sign of a
dead relationship is apathy so we're
talking about how you know some couples
they don't fight start out by not
fighting some couples they start out
with these big raging fights and maybe
they progress through a transformation
into deeper connection through the
conflict and you know we also have
relationships that are there's just a
whole lot of passive aggression and then
passive aggression slowly turns into
apathy and I'm curious if if you if you
find yourself in in such a relationship
where it's getting to the point of
apathy how how would you recommend What
would you have to say to someone who
wants
to try to bring it back from the brink
or like if if there just seems to be no
fight available because the the [__]
have all been given so I find that the
the true sign of a dead relationship is
disdain when one person feels disdain
for the other person that seems to and
the apathy is part of it right they say
it's almost like apathy it's not apathy
like I don't really give a [__] it's
apathy like you're gross and not worth
dealing with like it's like a little
there's some there's an underlying anger
to it that's not no longer wish wishing
to be felt I think
the so and the if I recall the the the
the studies on
this have a couple still willing to
fight and means that it's not lost but
if the couples you know in these tests
it's like once they have say I'm not
going to fight anymore somewhat
apathetic response then that's when the
relationship is is pretty much
gone and what I would say there's three
things I would say to answer that
question the first one is speak your
truth with an open heart you want to
save a marriage Speak Your Truth an open
heart speak your truth with kindness say
what's true for
you um the second thing I'd say is
listen to them with view let let all of
it be heard let connect move to
connection and and and see them
fully without without without taking it
personally yeah to to yeah I'm going to
repeat it yeah and to see them as they
are without needing them to change
without any kind
of management of them so again it's view
it's
it's having them feel seen and not
taking it personally so yeah I see that
you disdain me right now and you
wouldn't put your the words in your
mouth but just oh I see you right now I
see you're really frustrated with me
right
now I I see that you want to give up on
the marriage and I get why that would be
the case let's talk about it so it's
really allowing their truth to come out
and having a really safe space for it
and it's really about speaking your
truth in a way that makes it as safe as
possible to be
heard if the person you're with doesn't
want to work on the relationship then
grieve then you're not nothing's going
to happen you can't chase somebody into
loving you it doesn't work that way
so usually the person who would ask that
question the reason I say it is usually
the person who would ask that question
is the person who chases the love and
and
so you can't you can't chase somebody
into loving you
you can stop being
reactive but if they've given up that's
that's their business you can't you can
respect them enough to just let them
have that moment I had a phone call just
yesterday
from a person who's running a business
with two co-founders and at some point
she was talking about how ways she could
fight ways that she could leave all
these things and I just said to
her do your partners want to work on it
and she was nope like okay
so what does that tell you and she was
like yeah I mean so that like we have to
not work
together like just that quickly and so
that's that's that's what I would say to
folks who ask that question awesome cool
we talked about the uh the Youtube
videos that you just filmed on this
topic where can people go to find this
yeah so you can go to the YouTube
channel Joe Hudson YouTube channel and
then you can go to our playlist we have
a playlist we'll be releasing one every
once in a while once they're all
released uh we will have a available
exercises to go with them and anybody
who's done connection course can have
those exercises for free and I really
highly recommend that you watch them in
order uh
because they're designed to be that way
yeah awesome yeah thank you you Joe and
thank you everyone for listening yeah
yeah thank you man what a great
conversation appreciate you thanks for
listening to the art of accomplishment
if you enjoyed what you heard today
please share it with a friend and
remember to follow us and rate US in
your podcast app the art of
accomplishment was produced and hosted
by myself Brett kler and Joe Hudson mon
Kelly is our production coordinator and
this episode was edited by on replay
[Music]